F5 N1-N4 - NGINX OSS - NOT CREATED
==================================================

|

**You can find the current exam blueprint published here:**
`https://my.f5.com/manage/s/article/K29900360 <https://my.f5.com/manage/s/article/K29900360>`__

|

.. caution::
  NGINX OSS CONTENT IS NOT YET DEVELOPED and will be published if and when completed.

|

**Overview N1-N4 - NGINX OSS**

Welcome to the NGINX OSS compiled Study Guide. The purpose of the this guide is
to help your prepare for the 4 exams composing the NGINX OSS certification. The
contents of this document are based on the NGINX OSS Exam Blueprint version 1
for NGINX 1.26.0.

**This study guide provides students with some of the basic foundational
knowledge required to pass the exam.**

*This study guide is a collection of information and therefore not a completely
original work.* The majority of the information is compiled from `nginx.org
<https://nginx.org/en/docs/>`_ and `nginx.com <https://docs.nginx.com/>`_
sources that are located on Internet, as well as the `printed references`_. All
of the information locations are referenced at the top of each topic instead of
in an Appendix of this document. This was done to help the reader access the
reference the linked information easier without having to search through a
formal appendix.

There is not other certification standing pre-requisite to this exam.

Setting up nginx on any virtual machine is quite easy and can give great insight
and tools for getting experience about nginx, you can refer to the `install
nginx <https://nginx.org/en/docs/install.html>`_ reference.

This guide was prepared by an F5 partner's employee but is not an official F5
document and is *not* supported by F5.

**Reading = Knowledge = Power**

.. _printed references:

**Printed References**

Note that the nginx.org web page contains a `list of book references
<https://nginx.org/en/books.html>`_. Notably, the frist referenced book serves
as a main reference and can be downloaded for free from F5:
`https://www.f5.com/go/ebook/complete-nginx-cookbook
<https://www.f5.com/go/ebook/complete-nginx-cookbook>`_

(Ref:1) DEJONGHE, DEREK. NGINX COOKBOOK Advanced Recipes for High -Performance
Load Balancing. [S.l.]: Oâ€™REILLY MEDIA, 2024.

(Ref:2) Kapranoff, Alex. Nginx Troubleshooting: Investigate and Solve Problems
with Nginx-Powered Websites Using a Deep Understanding of the Underlying
Principles. Community Experience Distilled. Birmingham, UK: Packt Publishing,
2016.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   modules/module*
